    For my 3D modeling final I decided to go big and model an entire chess set.
The most time consuming part of the process was making the individual pieces
themselves. Pieces like the pawn, rook, and queen were the easiest as they are
semetrical. Others such as the knight, bishop, and king were more difficult.
Knight being the least semetrical of all of the shapes.

    To make each piece I started by chaning the viewing mode to ortholinear
mode by pressing numpad 5. I then selected the background image within the
3D view pane of the Blender window. Making sure that the piece I was about
to model was centered to the grid. I used the Blender add-on "Add Mesh:
Extra Objects" to create single vertices in object mode, tracing around the
semetrical parts of the chess piece. For the pawn it's the entire object.
For the knight it's only the pedestal that the horse sits on. After tracing
one side of the chess piece by adding a single vertex then extruding vertices
all the way down I change to object mode and apply the screw modifier from the
modifier properties tab. (Right pane) after applying the screw modifier I clicked
on the object button at the bottom of 3d view, selected convert to, and mesh from
curve. Which creates a 3D mesh from the object made by using the screw tool. In
edit mode I check the bottom and top of the model for holes.

    For the asymetrical portions of each chess piece instead of starting with
single vertices when tracing I started with a cylinder making sure that it is
centered along the x and y axis. I switch back into ortholinear view mode and
begin extruding the cylinder up scaling each extrusion to the outline of my
reference image. After the cylinder matches the height and width tracing
my reference I scaled the each extrusion along the y axis so that it begins
to look like a 3D version of my reference. A horse head for the knight chess
pice for example. For the horse I using the decimate modifier and pulled out
two vertices to form the ears. I spun the model around on the z axis pulling
in and pushing out individual vertices while repairing holes in the model
until it took the shape of a horse.

    For the top of the bishop it was a similar process of extruding a
cylinder upwards. Only I created an object out of the circle to make
the cutout at the top of the piece. I then positioned it and used
the boolean modifier to make a cutout in the shape. For all the circle
tops in my models I deleted the circles I had traced and replaced them
with uv spheres in edit mode to make the circles more perfect.

    To make the chess board I created a cube and scaled it down on the z
axis to 25% of it's height. I then applied a material and wood texture
to it. I duplicated it moving the copy up on the y axis, changing the
material color then duplicate those piece in the x axis, then joined
my 4 objects. Using the array modifier I created 4 copies in the y
direction applied it, and used one more array modifier to make 4 copies
in the x direction. Completing my 8 by 8 chess board.

    I included some screenshots of the process and a final render of
my chess pieces set up on the board.
